DETAILED WILL IN FAVOUR OF FAMILY MEMBERS
THIS is the last will of me, X, son of Shri .......................................which I make this.day of 20.
(2) I revoke all former wills and codicils made by me and declare this to be my last will.
(3) I appoint Shri .of Shri .of.and Shri
.of
.to be the executors and trustees of this will and I declare that the expression "Trustees" shall, where the context permits, include the survivor and survivors of them and other trustee or trustees for the time being of this my will.
(4) I bequest to my wife Smt all
my furniture, jewellery, household articles, gold medals, paintings and other articles and other effects of every kind, which shall be in or about.my dwelling house at except securities, shares, debentures, bonds, fixed deposits or money.
(5) I devise the house bearing municipal No.. situated on
.and more particularly described in the Schedule I hereto, securities, shares, debentures, bonds, fixed deposits or money lying in cash or bank accounts at
the time of my death, copyright in the books written by me and published by different publishers and vested in me, at the time of my death along with other rights relating thereto to my son Shri .
(6) I bequeath to Shri
Shri . .Ms.and Ms .the.sum of Rs ..
each and in case any of the legatees dies during my life time and leaving an issue at my death, then in such case I give the legacy which the person so dying would have taken, if he or she would have survived me, to his c
hildren living at my death who attain the age of eighteen years in equal shares.
(7) I give the house bearing No . situated, lying and bearing at .and flat No
.in the. Housing Society Ltd. on the land bearing plot No.S. No.Village Taluka . and District and piece of land
admeasuring.sq. mts. situated at.and bearing plot No Survey No .District
, the detailed description of all the properties have been given in Schedule II and Rs. . fifty lakhs unto the Trustees upon trust, that the said trustees will construct the temple at a cost not exceeding Rs
lakhs on the plot of land and shall instal the Idol of Gayatri in the said temple and shall invest the residue amount in any investments authorised by law f
or investment of the trust with the power to vary the investments from time to time and the income of such investments shall be used in maintenance of the temple, puja, seva and annual functions to be held in the said temple
(8) I give Rs . each to my daughters Smt .
And Smt .....................................
(9) I give an annuity of Rs . per month to my mother till her
death, payable on the first day of each month, the first of such payments if necessary of an apportioned part of the said annuity to be made on the first day of the month next after my death.
(10) I devise and bequest all my estate, moneys and securities not
hereby or by any codicil otherwise specifically disposed off and to which I will be entitled and I can dispose off by will in any manner I think proper unto my trustees upon trust that my trustees shall convert the said
properties into money and I declare that out of the money so realised, the trustees shall pay all my funeral and testamentary expenses and debts and sh
all pay or provide for the specific legacy or legacies and maintenance allowance hereby or by a codicil bequeathed by me and
shall invest the residue of the said moneys in or upon any of the investments hereby authorised and shall pay the income of such investments to the trustees of Hospital at to be applied for the purposes of the said hospital.
IN WITNESS WHERE OF I, the above named X have set my hands to this my last will and testament this .day of................20.
Signed and acknowledged by the above named X as his last will in the presence of us, who in his presence have hereto subscribed our names as witnesses.
WITNESSES
1.
2. Signature