Form of Petition for Restitution of Conjugal Rights under s. 9 of the Hindu Marriage Act 1955
AB.
Petitioner
(full name and address)
versus
WB
Respondent
(full name and address)
The humble petition of
Sri AB
Of..
1. That a marriage was solemnised between the parties onat
(An extract from the Hindu Marriage Register is filed herewith. An
affidavit, duly attested as the case may be).
2. That the status and place of residence of the parties to the marriage before the marriage and at the time of filing the petition were and are as follows:
Husband Wife
Status / Place of
residence
Status / Place of
residence
(1) Before marriage
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(2) After marriage
(Whether a party is a Hindu by religion or not is a part of his or her status)
3. In this paragraph particulars and places of cohabitation of the parties
as husband and wife and the children from the marriage, if any, should be given. The date and place of birth and name and sex of each child and the
fact whether he/she/they/is/are alive/dead should also be stated.
4. That on day of..the respondent, without reasonable excuse
and with a view to break the matrimonial home withdrew from the society of the petitioner
(cause of the estrangement as known to the petitioner may be stated).
5. That this petition is not presented in collusion with the respondent.
6. There has not been any unnecessary or improper delay in filing this
petition.
7. There is no legal ground why relief should not be granted.
8. There has not been any previous proceeding with regard to the
marriage by or on behalf of any party.
Or
There have been the following previous proceedings with regard to the marriage by or on behalf of the parties but the bar of
res judicata does not
apply.
9.
The marriage was solemnised at..on.
The husband and wife live at..
The husband and wife last resided together within
the local limits of the ordinary original civil jurisdiction of this court
10.
The petitioner prays for a decree for restitution of conjugal rights against the respondent.
Sd/- Petitioner
Verification
I, AB son of..aged about
years residing atdo
hereby solemnly affirm and say as follows:
I am the petitioner above-named and I know and I have made myself acquainted with the facts and circumstances of this case.
The statements in paragraphs 1 to 10 are true to my knowledge and belief.
I sign this verification on this.day of
at the Court
House at
Before me
Notary
Signature of AB
Signature of Advocate