GIFT OF LAND FOR BUILDING A TEMPLE
THIS DEED of gift is made at ....... on this ...... day of ........ 2000, between A son of Shri ............ resident of .
......... (hereinafter called "the Donor") of the ONE PART and B Son of Shri ....................... resident of ...................................... (hereinafter called "the donee") of the OTHER PART.
WHEREAS the donor is absolutely possessed of or otherwise well and sufficiently entitled to the land, more particularly described in the Schedule hereunder written and hereinafter called "the said property".
AND WHEREAS the donee proposes to construct a temple for public and he has requested the donor to donate the said property to him for the construction of the temple thereon.
AND WHEREAS the donor has agreed with the donee to gift to him for the construction of temple the said property hereby transferred belonging to the donor on the terms and conditions hereinafter contained.
NOW THIS DEED WITNESSES AS FOLLOWS:
1. In pursuance of the aforesaid agreement and in consideration of the donee's covenants hereinafter contained, the donor does hereby voluntarily and absolutely grants, convey
s, transfers and assures unto and to the use of the donee all that plot of land more particularly described in the Schedule, hereunder written, to hold the same to the donee and his successors according to the custom of succession in the management of rel
igious endowments re cognized by Hindu religion for the purpose of temple and for no other purpose.
2. The donee hereby covenants with the donor as follows:
(i) He will construct a "Gaytri temple" on the said property within one year from the date of these presents and will not use the said property for any other purpose whatsoever.
(ii) The temple when constructed on the said property shall be open to all Hindus for worship and prayers and for no other purpose.
(iii) The donee and his successors shall regularly perform all ceremonies of worship in the temple according to Hindu religion.
(iv) The donee and his successors will keep the said temple in good and substantial repair.
(v) If
the donee fails to construct a temple within the period of one year from the date of these presents or if the said property shall cease to be used for the purpose of temple or if the object of the gift is frustrated otherwise for any reason whatsoever, t
his gift will stand ipso facto revoked and the property shall revert to the donor or his successors, heirs, administrators or legal representatives free from any claim on that account, as if the gift was never made nor intended.
3. The estimated value of the property is Rs. .....
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the donor has executed this deed of gift and delivered the same to the donee, who has signed the same in token of acceptance the day and year first above written.
The Schedule above referred to
Signed and delivered by the within named donor
Signed and delivered by the within named donee
WITNESSES;