ADOPTION DEED FOR THE ADOPTION OF A MAJOR SON
THIS DEED OF ADOPTION is made this.day200between X S/o. aged
.resident of.........................(hereinafter referred to as the party of the first part), Y S/o.aged.resident of(hereinafter referred to as the party of the second part) and, Z S/o.........aged
.resident of. (hereinafter referred to as the party of the third part).
WHEREAS
(i)
The party of the first part has no issue and was interested to take a son in adoption.
(ii)
The party of the second part has three sons and on the request made by the party of the first part has agreed to give son in his son named.aged 18 year
s, the party of the third part, in adoption to the party of the first part.
(iii)
The custom applicable to the parties permits the adoption of a person who has completed the age of fifteen years.
(iv)
The parties of the first part and the second part have taken the consent of their wives for giving and taking the party of the third part in adoption.
(v)
The parties of the first and second part have completed the physical act of giving and taking of the boy in adoption on at
.along with the performance of Datta Homam and religious functions in the presence of their relatives and friends.
(f)
The parties thought it necessary and expedient to execute a deed to record the adoption having already taken place.
NOW THIS DEED WITNESSETH AS FOLLOWS:
1.
The party of the second part, has given his son ................... aged about.the party of the third part, in adoption to the party of the first part, and the party
of the first part has taken the boy in adoption with the consent of his wife and the physical act of giving and taking has been completed along with the Datta Homam and other religious ceremonies on
.at the residence of the second party in the presence of relatives and friends of the parties.
2.
The party of the third part has been transferred from the family of the party of the second part to the family of the party of first part, from the date of adoption and he shall have all the legal rights of
an adopted son of the party of the first part.
3.
The party of the second part has not received any consideration from the party of the first part for giving the party of the third part in adoption. He agrees shall also not lay any claim hereinafter against the party of the first part for giving the part
y of the third part in adoption.
4.
The party of the first part, shall be liable for the maintenance, education, marriage and other expenses of the adopted son and he agrees to bring him in accordance with his status.
5.
The party of the third part being major, has given his consent to the adoption and has joined in this deed as a party in token of giving his consent to adoption.
IN WITNESS
WHEREOF, the parties hereto have signed this deed on the date and the year first above written
.
WITNESSES Signed and delivered by the within named A
1. Signed and delivered by the within named B
2. Signed and delivered by the within named C