SIMPLE ADOPTION DEED
THIS DEED OF ADOPTION is made this
..day of.200between AB S/o aged.and resident of..................... (Hereinafter
referred to as the First Party) and CD S/o...........................aged.and resident of. (
Hereinafter referred to as the Second Party).
WHEREAS
(i) The first party has no daughter and was desirous of adopting a daughter;
(ii) The second
party has four daughters and the first party has approached the second party for giving one of his daughters in adoption to him and the second party after obtaining consent of his wife has agreed to give one daughter named Kum .........................to
the first party.
(iii) The physical act of giving and taking of the daughter was performed on.along with the performance of religious ceremonies in the presence of relatives and friends of both
parties.
(
iv) The parties desired to execute a Deed of Adoption, so as to have an authentic record of the adoption having taken place.
NOW THIS DEED OF ADOPTION WITNESSETH AS FOLLOWS:
1.
The second party has given in adoption his daughter named.aged about. to the first party on at.and the first party has taken her in adoption with the consent
of his wife. The physical act of giving and taking of the daughter was performed along with the religious ceremonies, in the presence of relatives and friends of both the parties.
2. The said daughter
..has been transferred from the family of second party to the family of first party from the date of adoption and became entitled to all the rights and liabilities of a natural born daughter of the first party.
3. The second party will not make any claim hereinafter to the custody of the adopted daughter and she shall hereinafter be known as the daughter of the first party
4. The second party has not received any consideration for giving his daughter in adoption to the first party and shall not lay any claim hereinafter against the first party for giving his daughter in adoption.
5. The first party shall be responsible for the maintenance, education, marriage and other expenses of the adopted daughter and he agrees to bear all expenses in accordance with his status.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
the parties hereto signed this deed on the day and the year first above written.
WITNESSES
Signed and delivered by the within named
ABC
1 .
2.Signed and delivered by the within named XYZ
.