ACCOUNT OPENING FORM FOR SOCIETY, CLUB OR NON-PROFIT MAKING BODY
........................Society Ltd.
Date: ..........................
To
The Manager,
.............................Bank,
Branch,
...........................
Dear Sir,
We forward herewith the account opening form of our society with your bank along with the copies of the resolutions passed at a meeting of managing committee of Society Ltd. on theday of20 Shri
shall be authorised to operate the said account in accordance with the resolution of the managing committee of the society.
2. On behalf of the society, we hereby agree to comply with and be bound by the Bank's rules for the conduct of account with it.
Yours faithfully,
ForSociety Ltd.
Chairman
Copy of the Resolutions passed at a meeting of managing committee of ................Society Ltd. on theday of 20
1. RESOLVED, That an account of the society be opened with the .....................Bank atBranch and the said bank be authorised to honour all cheques or other orders drawn by and to accept and act upon receipts for moneys
deposited with or owing by the Bank on the account or accounts at any time kept or to be kept in the name of the said Society Ltd. with the Bank and also to honour the bills accepted or notes made on behalf of the said
Society Ltd.
2. That the said bank may be instructed
to honour such cheques, orders, receipts, bills or notes made on behalf of the society and signed by (i) Shri ; (ii) Shri................... and countersigned by Shri
secretary for the time being and to debit such cheques, orders, receipts, bills or notes to the account or accounts of the society in credit for the time being or overdrawn and to accept the endorsement of Shri
..and Shriand countersigned by the secretary on all cheques, orders, bills or notes payable to the said society.
3. That the Secretary be instructed to furnish to the Bank with a list of names of the members of the managing committee, secretary and a copy of the Rules and Regulations of the
Society Ltd. and inform the Bank from time to time by notice in
writing under the hands of the Chairman of any changes that may take place therein and the said Bank shall be entitled to act upon any such notice until the receipt of further notice under the hands of the Chairman.
4. That the resolutions passed by the
committee in this meeting may be communicated to the Bank. These resolutions will remain in full force until notice in writing be given to the said Bank by the Chairman of the Society."
Date:..
Chairman