RELEASE DEED
This Indenture made at this..day of.....................20..between A, son of
..resident of.....................I hereinafter referred to as the "Mortgagee" of the ONE PART and B, son of..resident of..hereinafter referred to as the "Mortgagee" of the, OTHER PART.
WHEREAS by an Agreement dated
..and registered in the office of SubRegistrar of Assurances at..under SI. No. .................... of ..:,.. 20
..the Mortgagor deposited title deeds relating to the piece or parcel of land, described in the Schedule thereunder as also in the Schedule I hereunder written in consideration of the sum of Rs .
..paid by the Mortgagee to the Mortgagor and the Mortgagee was to hold the said title deeds as an equitable security for the repayment of Rs .. and interest at the rate of ..% p.a. by the Mortgagor to the Mortgagee;
AND WHEREAS the Mortgagor has paid to the Mortgagee interest from time to time due under the said equitable mortgage upto date
AND WHEREAS the Mortgagee has desired t
he Mortgagor to pay principal sum due to him as aforesaid, which the Mortgagor has agreed to pay subject to Mortgagee executing Release Deed as is hereinafter contained.
NOW THIS INDENTURE WITNESSETH THAT in consideration of
..the sum of Rs ..(Rupees..) to the Mortgagee by the Mortgagor in full and final payment on the equitable mortgage dated
..(the receipt whereof the said Mortgagee doth hereby admit and acknowledge), the Mortgagee doth hereby release and discharge the title deeds and
writing specified in the Schedule 11 hereto and also the piece or parcel of land described in the Schedule I hereunder written from the equitable security created thereon in respect thereof by the said mortgage dated the
..and from all claims, demands
and rights in respect thereof or in any wise relating to and the said Mortgagee hereby covenant with the Mortgagor that he has not done or knowingly suffered anything to be done whereby the said property or any part thereof may be encumbered.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the said Mortgagee has set his hands at.....................the day and year first hereinabove written
The Schedule I above referred to
The Schedule II above referred to
WITNESSES Signed and delivered by the withinnamed
1 .
2.
Receipt Received this..day of
..20.. from the withinnamed the sum of Rupees..only being the full consideration money payable to me.
WITNESSES I say Received
1 . .....................
2. Mortgagee