TM - 5
TRADE AND MERCHANDISE MARKS ACT, 1958
(Notice of Opposition to Application for registration of a Trade Mark, Section 21 (1), Rules 51 (2)
In the Matter of Application No. . in Class .. in the name of
.., . c/o , .
AND
In the matter of Opposition thereto by .
We, .., a Company incorporated under the Indian Companies Act, 1913 and having its registered office at
.. in the state of , hereby give notice of our intention to oppose the Trade Mark . advertised under the above number in Class
.. in the Trade Marks Journal No.. dated .20 . at Page No
.
The grounds of opposition are as follows :
1. We have been carrying on a well established business as manufacturers and distributors of
inter alia medicinal and pharmaceutical preparations including h
erbal formulations from over more than 3 decades.
We are marketing and distributing our whole range of products through our wide net work of dealers, chemists and stockists in India and abroad under various Trade Marks. Our products beari
ng the various trade marks enjoy high reputation and goodwill throughout the country.
2. We are the proprietors of the Trade Mark ' which is registered under the Trade and Merchandise Marks Act, 1958, particulars of which are as under :
The
registration of the aforesaid Trade Mark has been renewed from time to time and the same is valid and subsisting as on date.
3. The said Trade Mark is in use from last over ..years by the Company originally by way of a licence from its original proprietor,
... which was merged with the Company in the year 20
.., and hence, the Company is now the proprietor of the said Trade Mark. Due to the excellent and intrinsic quality of the product sold under the brand name ..,
it enjoys a high reputation and popularity among the general public and those concerned in the medicinal profession and trade.
4. We have incurred huge expenses in promoting the sales of the product bearing Trade Mark . in India and as a
result of continuous, uninterrupted and extensive use of the same, the product has earned a high reputation and goodwill which is a valuable asset for the Company. The said mark has become associated with the Company in the minds of general pu
blic and those concerned in the medical profession and trade. The product bearing the Trade Mark
has become synonymous as a quality product from ..
5. The adoption of Trade Mark .. by the applicant is, therefore, blatantly
dishonest and amounts to deliberate and mala fide attempt to misrepresent and cash on the goodwill earned and enjoyed by our Trade Mark
.. The use of the deceptively similar Trade Mark by the applicant is likely to deceive and cause co
nfusion and the registration of such Trade Marks are barred by the provisions of Section 11 (a) and 11 (e) of the Trade & Merchandise Marks Act, 1958.
6. We further state and submit that the impugned Trade Mark . constitutes the infringement of our well known registered Trade Mark
and the applicant's goods are also likely to be passed off as those of ours.
7. The goods in respect of which the applicant is seeking registration are the same and/ or almost same in respect of our Company, who are the proprietors of the Trade Mark
.. Since the channels of distribution and trade through which the goods of the applicant would pass, would be the same, it would result in confusion
in the minds of the general public and those concerned in medical profession and trade.
8. Trade Mark  is visually, structurally and phonetically similar to our Trade Mark .. This would cause confusion and deception since
the use of Trade Mark
is extensive and voluminous. The general public and those concerned in the medical profession and trade are aware of the existence of our product bearing Trade Mark .. and the use of confusingly similar Trade Mark
.. will cause irreparable harm to the Company, in addition to the general public and those concerned in the medical profession and trade.
9. For the reasons stated hereinabove, the registration of the trade mark applied for in the said applic
ation will be contrary to the provisions of Section 11 (a), 11 (e), 12(1) and 18 of the Trade & Merchandise Marks Act, 1958.
10. The applicant's mark is only proposed to be used and, therefore, no harm will be caused to the applicant if they voluntarily withdraw their application.
11. In view of the facts and circumstances stated hereinabove and on the grounds and/ or reasons set out in the foregoing paras and also to maintain the sanctity of the Register of Trade Marks and the intere
st of the general public, we respectfully submit that this is a fit and proper case for the exercise of the Registrar's discretion in favour of the Company by denying the registration of the applicant's mark. It is of paramount importance that
t
here should be no confusion in the minds of general public and those concerned in the medical profession and trade which would cause an adverse effect on the purchasing public which may lead to dangerous consequences. Moreover, the balance of co
nvenience is in favour of the Company as the applicants mark is proposed to be used.
12. We crave leave to add to and/ or amend or alter any of the foregoing grounds. Therefore we pray that :
a) This Notice of Opposition is allowed;
b) The Application for registration of Trade Mark .. under No
.. be refused under the Trade & Merchandise Marks Act, 1958;
c) That the discretion vested in the Hon'ble Tribunal be exercised in favour of the Company; and
d) The cost of these proceedings be awarded to us.
All communications in relation to these proceedings may be sent to the following address in India :
Address .
.
.
To :
The Registrar of Trade Marks,
Trade Marks Registry,
Address .
.
.
Dear Sir,
Re: Opposition to Application No. .. in Class 5 in the name .
Company Code No.
Enclosed please Notice of Opposition in form TM-5, in triplicate on the above subject.
The necessary fees will be paid by the bearer of this letter in cash.
Kindly acknowledge receipt.
Thanking You,
Yours faithfully,
..