Application under Section 125 on behalf of the minor
BEFORE THE HON'BLE COURT OF..
Case No.  of .
(Under Section 125, Cr.P.C.)
District
Sri .. minor .. S/o  R/o . P.S . District  through his next friend Sri
.. S/o ... R/o  maternal uncle P.S  District  of the aforesaid Sri.
.....
Applicant
Versus
Sri.. S/o.. R/o
P.S. . District .
....Opposite party
To
The Hon'ble Judge of the aforesaid Court.
The humble applicant most humbly showeth as under:
1. That the opposite party is the father of the applicant.
2. That Smt.  the mother of the applicant was married to the opposite party on  and out of the said wedlock, the applicant was born on .
3. That at present the applicant is.years old a minor and therefore the present petition is being filed through the next friend of the applicant.
4. That on  the opposite party threw out Smt.  (as above noted) and the applicant of his house and refused to maintain and support the applicant and his mother.
5. That ever since then the applicant was living along with his mother at the house of his aforesaid maternal uncle who was taking the care of both the applicant and his mother.
6. That on .. Smt. ...the mother of the applicant died on account of the heart-attack.
7. That since last six months the financial position of the maternal uncle of the applicant Sri  has considerably deteriorated and he is unable to feed and maintain the applicant.
8. That despite requests made by the maternal uncle of the applicant, Sri.......................... the opposite party refused to maintain the applicant.
9. That the opposite party is a man of influence. Besides holding the post of .. in the Department and drawing a salary of Rs. . The opposite party also owns other immovable properties at ..
10. That the opposite party is duty bound to support and maintain the applicant.
PRAYER
It is, therefore, most respectfully prayed that the Hon'ble Court may be pleased to direct the opposite party to pay a sum of Rs. .. per month to the applicant as his maintenance allowance.
Date Advocate for the Applicant