ASSIGNMENT OF RENTS
THIS DEED OF ASSIGNMENT made at  on thisday of 20
Between A son of Shri resident of  (hereinafter called the Assignor) of the ONE PART and Mrs. B, wife of Shri resident of (hereinafter called the Assignee) of the OTHER PART
WHEREAS
(1) The assignor has sold and conveyed his house bearing sold house municipal No
on ....... road city to Mrs. B wife of Shri
resident of..
by deed of sale dated
and registered on
subject to the existing tenancies of persons named in the Schedule hereunder written.
(2) The aforesaid tenants have not pa
id rent of the premises for various periods, prior to the date of the said sale and it has been agreed by and between the assignor and the assignee that the assignor shall transfer and assign unto, and to the use of the said assignee all rents payable by
all such tenants accrued upto the date of sale.
NOW THIS DEED OF ASSIGNMENT
witnesses that in pursuance of the said agreement and in consideration of the sum of Rs . ............. paid by the assignee, (the receipt whereof the said assignor hereby admit
and acknowledges), the said assignor as the beneficial and sole owner do hereby assign and transfer unto and in favour of the assignee, all his right, title and interest to the various sums of rents due and owing to the assignor by the tenants of the said
house for the period prior to the sale of the said house to the assignee as aforesaid more particularly detailed in the Schedule hereunder written and all the benefits, advantages, accruing therefrom and all rights and privileges attached thereto, to hold
the same unto the assignee absolutely and this indenture further witnesses that the assignor do hereby covenant with the assignee that all and every item of such rents are still lawfully due and payable by -the said. respective tenants AND the said assign
o
r has not received any advance against such rents nor any part payment nor released or committed to release or remit the same or any portion thereof nor written off any amount with intent to exonerate any tenant or FSSFS any thing to prejudice the right o
f
the assignee as transferee thereof to recover the said rents absolutely, AND FURTHER there is no injunction or prohibitory order from any court against him from recovering the rents or any portion thereof and further that the assignor hereby agree and un
dertake that, he shall write letters of attainment to the respective tenants in favour of the assignee and on the request of the assignee, he shall do all acts and make such writings or statements as. shall be necessary to effectuate this assignment
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have hereunto set and subscribed their respective hands, the day and year first hereinabove written.
The Schedule above referred to
S.
No.Name of
the tenantDescription,
of the tenementMonthly
rentPeriod for
which rent
dueTotal amount
of rent due
123
456
WITNESSES
1. Signed and delivered by A, the withinnamed assignor
2. Signed and delivered by Mrs. B, the withinnamed assignee