GENERAL POWER OF ATTORNEY BY A WOMAN PARTNER
KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS that I Smt . wife of Shri .resident of .SEND GREETINGS:
WHEREAS I am a partner in partnership firm in the name of M/s. .....................and are carrying on business of
. on the terms and conditions contained in the Deed of Partnership dated having its registered office at duly registered with the Registrar of Firms . .at SI.No .
AND WHEREAS on account of my inability to look after and manage the said partnership business in person, I am desir
ous to appoint an attorney and confer upon him the powers hereinafter stated
NOW THESE PRESENTS WITNESS that I the said ......................
do hereby nominate, constitute and appoint my husband Shri. son of Shri .resident of......................
to be my true and lawful attorney in my name and on my behalf to execute, do all or any of the acts, deeds or things mentioned, that is to say:
(1) To transact, manage, carry on and look after the business of M/s .in terms of the Partnership deed dated
.as a partner and to do the acts, deeds and things necessary for or in any manner connected with or having reference to my said business.
(2) To do all acts, deeds and things as a partner in the said partnership firm and exercise all or any of t
he powers to be executed by a partner in the said firm including banking operation, borrowing money, to draw, accept, endorse, negotiate, pay or satisfy any bills of exchanges, promissory notes, cheques, drafts, on behalf of the firm, retirement, dissolut
ion or other deeds and documents.
(3) To substitute and appoint from time to time one or more attorneys or attorney under him with the same or limited powers and to remove such substitute or substitutes at his discretion.
(4) And generally to act as m
y attorney in relation to the above and all other matters in which I may be interested or concerned and on my behalf to execute and do all documents, instruments, acts, matters, deeds and things as I could do if personally present.
And I hereby for myself, my heirs, executors, administrators and
legal representatives ratify and confirm and agree to ratify and confirm
that whatsoever my said attorney or any substitute or substitutes acting under him shall do or purport to do by virtue of these presents.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have set my hand and put my thumb impression on this Power of Attorney in the presence of witness.
WITNESS
1. ..
2. L T I of Executor
3. Attested by
I hereby certify that the contents of the aforesaid Power of Attorney are read over to the executor and explained the contents therein in vernacular known to the executor. Identified by me.
(Smt. ...)
Advocate
Solemnly affirmed before me by Smt . .who is identified by Smt .Advo
cate. I am also satisfied that the executor has understood the contents of this document before executing the same.
Place: (Notary)
Date: Public