POWER OF ATTORNEY BY A PARTNERSHIP FIRM
KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENT that I, SD, partner of the firm M/s ., authorised by the other partners appoint for and on behalf of my firm Mr. RS, the Manager if the firm, as attorney of the firm above named to do
, execute and transact all such acts, deeds and things as he thinks necessary, proper, expedient or conducive to the efficient transaction and carrying n the business of the firm. In particular he is authorised to do, execute, and transact the following d
eeds and matters so long he remains in the service of the firm:
1. The said attorney is authorised to make, execute and effect all agreements in general and agreement for purchase of Cars, Scooters, and Trucks on hire purchase, in particular.
2. The said attorney is authorised to make all kind of sales and purchase and do all other works concerning with loans and advances as they think necessary and expedient in the interest of the business of the firm.
3. The said attorney is authorised to draw, accept, accept, negotiate, pay or satisfy bills of exchange, promissory note, hundis, cheque, draft.
4. The attorney is authorised to place order on my behalf, retire the documents from the bank, make payments, receive payments on behalf of the firm.
5. The attorney is authorised to conduct, supervise and control the correspondence. The attorney shall deal with those having dealings with the firm and shall deal with the Governme
nt, Semi Government Offices Semi-Government Offices and Local Bodies, with firms, companies, persons and individuals for and on behalf of the firm.
6. The attorney is authorised to demand, collect and give effectual bona fide discharge of
all debts, hire monies advances and other dues and to take, prosecute and use all lawful means for recovery and realisation of the amount of the firm.
7. The said attorney is authorised to purchase movable and immovable properties for and on behalf of the firm and acquire rights, lease, and licenses for and on behalf of the firm.
8. The attorney is authorised to sell or otherwise transfer any property, whether movable or immovable , in the ordinary course of the business of the firm and in the interest of the firm.
9. The attorney is authorised to borrow the money from the bank and accept deposits for the purpose of the business of the firm.
10. The Attorney is authorised to pledge, mortgage, hypothecation of securities , bonds, negotiable instruments or other assets of the firm in the interest of the business of the firm.
11. The attorney is authorised to look after all the matters concerning with sales tax, income-tax, Semi Government Bodies, local authorities, Corporation , Companies, firms, persons and individuals including Tribunals and arbitrators.
12. The said attorney is authorised to sign plaints, written statements, memorandum of appeals, revision of all kinds as attorney of the firm.
13. The attorney is authorised to appoint advocate/advocates to look after Civil and Criminal matters of the firm and appoint tax advocate/advocates to look after the matters concerning with Sale-tax and Income tax.
14. The attorney is authorised to file and get back papers and documents and obtain refunds to stamp duty sales-tax and income-tax for an on behalf of the firm.
15. The said attorney is authorised to bid and purchase property at sales in execution of decree or court orders.
16. The attorney is authorised to take delivery of property or goods purchased or of money realised in execution of decree of the Court or order of any authority.
17. The said attorney shall receive summons and notices of the Courts and Government departments for and on behalf of the firm.
18. The attorney shall appoint Manager, Accountant, typist, Steno, clerks and peons, etc. for the firm on such salaries or remuneration as he thinks proper and expedient in the interest of the firm.
19. The attorney is authorised to suspend or terminate any of the employee of the firm after proper investigation of the misconduct of the employee who is suspended or terminated.
20. The attorney shall attend all the meetings of any firm, association, companies, corporations committees, etc for and on behalf of the firm and its partners.
21. Generally the attorney shall act as General Manager and over all in-charge of the firm and its affairs and do all the things concerning with the firms in its best interest.
22. The firm and its partner agree that all the works done by the attorney in execution of this duty shall be binding on firm and its partners.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have signed this power of attorney in the presence of the following witnesses:
Witnesses
1. For Singh Automobiles
2. Signature
(SD) Partner