POWER OF ATTORNEY TO COLLECT DEBTS
TO ALL TO WHOM THESE PRESENTS SHALL COME, I Mr. ... of ... residing at ... send Greetings
WHEREAS in the course of my business. I have several amounts to recover from others and which were either advances or loans or on account payments or as deposits or arising out of sale and purchase of goods.
AND WHEREAS due to my old age (or any other cause) I am unable to take necessary action to recover the said debts and I therefore propose to appoint Mr. ... residing at... as my attorney or agent. to do all ac
ts and things in that behalf which he has agreed to do.
NOW KNOW YOU ALL and THESE PRESENTS WITNESS THAT I Mr.... do hereby appoint. and constitute the said Mr. ... to be my true and lawful attorney with all authority to do and execute the following acts
, deeds and things In my name and on my behalf and in my name viz.
1) To demand and recover all the debts and other amounts due or payable to me on any account from any person or persons Including anybody corporate or any Govt. or any loc
al or other authority and to give valid receipt or discharge for the same.
2) To file suits, petitions. or take any other legal action, against any such person as aforesaid to recover the debts or other amounts due and payable by him to m
e, in any Court of law, Tribunal or any other judicial or quasi judicial or executive authority.
3) To compromise, compound or settle or adjust any debt or other amount due and payable to me by any such person on such terms and conditions as the attorney may think fit.
4) To take any insolvency or liquidation proceedings against any person who is indebted to me for any amount.
5) For the purpose aforesaid to sign, declare and file plaints, petition applications, affidavits and other papers referred required to be filed in any court or tribunal In any such legal proceedings.
6) To defend any legal action taken against me In the matter of any debt due to me or alleged to be due by me in any court or tribunal.
7) For the purpose aforesaid to appoint any advocate or advocates and to sign vakalatnama in his or their favour and to change him or them if required and to settle and pay their fees.
8) To refer any dispute regarding any debt or other amount due to me or alleged to be due by me-to arbitration to one or more arbitrators as required and file statements of claims or
defenses and documents, to give oral evidence and to conduct such activities personally
or through advocate and to sign the agreement for reference to arbitrators.
9) To appoint a substitute or substitutes for recovering any particular debt or other amounts due to me and to delegate to him all or any of the powers herein contained as the attorney may think fit.
10) To do all other acts and things as may be required to be done to recover or realise the debts and all other amounts due and payable to me.
AND I, hereby ratify and confirm all lawful acts done by the said attorney pursuant to this Power of Attorney.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF I Mr. ... have put my hand this . day of .. , 2000.
Signed and delivered by Mr.
in the presence ....... of ..........