INDEMNITY GIVEN TO THE BANK BY THE NATURAL GUARDIAN OF MINOR CHILDREN
To
The
..........................................
Bank,
Branch,
Dear Sirs
WHEREAS
(1) Shri
son of late Shri resident ofwas having a fixed Deposit No dated for years @
% interest per annum and the said fixed deposit has become due on The said Shri
had not nominated anybody to receive the proceeds of the said Fixed Deposit Receipt on his death under the Banking Companies (Nomination) Rules, 1985.
(2) The said Shri expired on leaving Smt and his minor son Master as his only legal heirs in accordance with Hindu Law, by which the said Shri
governed at the time of his death
(3) The said Smt .
has applied to you to pay the maturity proceeds of the said FDR viz. Rs  to me for myself and as mother and natural guardian of my minor son
without insisting on the production of legal representation to the estate of the deceased Shri which you have agreed to pay on condition inter alia, on my executing this Letter of Indemnity with two sureties
NOW THIS LETTER OF INDEMNITY WITNESSETH THAT
in consideration of your agreeing to pay to the said Smt . for herself and in her capacity as mother and natural guardian of her minor son Master
the said sum of Rs being the maturity proceeds of the Fixed Deposit Receipt No dated for Rs . we (1) Smt
. the claimant aforesaid and (i)  and (ii) as sureties hereby bind and oblige ourselves, our heirs, executors, legal representatives and assigns jointly
And severally to indemnify and keep indemnified the  Bank, its successors and assigns of, from and against all claims, demands, ac
tions, proceedings, losses, damages, costs, charges and expenses which may be made, or brought or commenced against the Bank or which the
Bank may have to pay, incur or suffer as a result (direct or indirect) of the payment to the said Smt aforesaid sum of Rs
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, we (1) Smt and (i) and (ii)  aforesaid have subscribed our names hereunto on this day of
20
WITNESSES
1 Signed and delivered by the within named Smt.
2.
Signed and delivered by the within named
Shri(First Surety)
Signed and delivered by the within named Shri ... .. (Second Surety)