DEED OF RENEWAL OF LEASE
THIS DEED OF RENEWAL OF LEASE made atthis day of20
between A, son of resident of................. (hereinafter referred to as "the Lessor") of the ONE PART and B, son of resident of
(hereinafter referred to as "the Lessee") of the OTHER PART
WHEREAS
(1) By a Deed of Lease made atonday of.................20
between Lessor of the ONE PART and Lessee of the OTHER PART (which lease deed has been registered with the Sub-Registrar of Assurances at on theday of20
as Document No . in Book No. ......................Volume Noat pages
to................and is hereinafter referred to as "the principal lease deed"), the Lessor demised unto the Lessee all that House No. .......................Road, for a term of 3 years commencing on theth day of 20
and determining on the th day of................20on the rent and subject to such terms and conditions as set out in the said principal lease deed.
(2) Clauseof the said princi
pal lease deed provides that the Lessor shall on the request in writing made to him by the Lessee at least one month before the expiry of the term of the lease granted under the said principal lease deed, grant to the Lessee a renewal of the lease of the
demised premises for a further period of years n the, same terms and conditions including the option for renewal.
(3) In pursuance of the said clause of the principal lease deed, the Lessee has exercised his option for the renewal of lease by his letter datedfor a further period of years commencing from
the day of on the same terms and conditions as are contained in the principal lease deed and has also requested the Lessor to execute a Deed of Renewal of Lease on the same
terms and conditions for a further period of ................. years commencing fromthe day of 20and the Lessor has agreed to do so.
NOW THIS INDENTURE WITNESSETH THAT it is agreed by and between the parties that the term of the lease granted by the principal lease deed, of the demised premises shall be extended for a further period of
years commencing from on the same terms and conditions as contained in the principal lease deed.
This Deed of Renewal of Lease shall be exe
cuted in duplicate. The original shall be retained-by the Lessor and the duplicate by the Lessee.
The stamp duty and all other expenses in respect of this Deed of
Renewal of Lease and duplicate thereof shall be borne and paid by the Lessee.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
, the parties have hereunto set and subscribed their respective hands the day and year first hereinabove written.
The Schedule above referred to
WITNESSES
1 Signed and delivered by the within named A, the
Lessor
2.
Signed and delivered by the within named B, the Lessee