DEED OF SURRENDER OF LEASE
THIS DEED of Surrender is made atthe
day of20BETWEEN A, son of resident of................. (hereinafter called "The Lessee") of the ONE PART and B, son of
resident of(hereinafter called "The Lessor") of the OTHER PART.
WHEREAS
(1) By a Deed of Lease made aton
day of.........20 between the Lessor of the ONE PART and the Lessee of the OTHER PART (which lease deed has been registered with the Sub-Registrar of Assurances at
on theth day of20 as Document Noin Book No. .................Volume No  at pages No
to.................and is hereinafter called the Lease Deed), the Lessor demised unto the Lessee the land and premises described in the Schedule to the said Lease Deed (being
the same as described in the Schedule hereunder written), hereinafter called the "demised premises" for a period of years commencing fromat a monthly rent of Rs
on the terms and conditions as set out in the said Lease Deed.
(2) Th
e Lessor proposes to develop the demised premises by constructing buildings thereon consisting of flats and then to sell the said flats to the prospective flat purchasers on ownership basis and has requested the Lessee to surrender the demised premises, w
hich the Lessee has agreed to do so in the manner hereinafter appearing.
NOW THIS DEED WITNESSETH THAT
in pursuance of the said agreement and in consideration of the sum of Rs (Rupees.............................. ), (the receipt whereof the Lesse
e hereby acknowledges), the Lessee as beneficial owner hereby surrender and assign and quit claim to the demised premises demised by the said Lease Deed unto and to the use of the Lessor TO HOLD the demised premises unto the Lessor for all the unexpired l
ease term and interest created by the said Lease Deed TO the Intent that the same terms and interests may merge and be extinguished in the reversion which was immediately expectant thereon before the execution of this Deed AND
THE LESSEE
hereby covenants and declares that he has not done any act, deed or thing whereby or by means whereof he is in any way prevented from surrendering the demised premises from the. said lease.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have hereunto set and subscribed their respective hands the day and year first hereinabove written.
The Schedule above referred to
WITNESSES
1 Signed and delivered by the within named Lessee A
2. Signed and delivered by the within named Lessor B
Received from the Lessor B a sum of Rs.(Rupees. only) being the full consideration payable to me under these presents
WITNESSES I say received.
1. (A)
2.
2.
Lessee