TENANCY IN THE FORM OF LETTER BYTHE PERSON PROPOSING TO TAKE PREMISES ON RENT
Shri.
Dear Sir,
Tenancy of Bungalow Noon Road
Regarding
Please refer to your Advertisement dated
in the Times of India (Bombay Issue) and further correspondence and negotiations regarding the taking of captioned bungalow
2. 1 am willing to take on rent the Bungalow No situated atRoad on the following terms/conditions:
(i) That the rent for the said bungalow will be Rs
per month payable by 10th of each succeeding month to which it relates.
(ii)That the tenancy will be for a period of 11 months from the date on which the possession of the said bungalow is given to me with an option t
o me to renew the same for such further period(s) not exceeding eleven months on the same terms and conditions.
(iii)That I shall be liable to pay ground rent, municipal and other existing or future, whether payable by the Landlord or the tenant relating to the said bungalow.
(iv)That I shall bear the charges for electricity consumed in the said bungalow for fans, lights, A.C., and other electrical appliances. I shall also bear the charges for water.
(v)I shall keep the said bungalow in proper state of repairs.
(vi)I shall not sub-let, assign or part with possession of the said bungalow or any part thereof without your previous consent in writing.
(vii)I shall keep the electric fans, A.C., tube lights, bulbs, sanitary fittings, wash basins, sink, glass panes
and other fixtures and fittings in the bungalow in proper working order and shall replace the same with equipment and material of the same specifications.
(viii)On the expiry of the lease period, I shall vacate the bungalow.
(ix)The tenancy is liable to be terminated before the expiry of the term of the tenancy by one month notice thereof to the other party.
If you accept the above terms and conditions, please deliver the possession of the said bungalow to me at an early date.
Yours faithfully,
Address
Date:
..................................