FORM O-2
[See rule 8D]
Report of valuation for agricultural lands other than coffee, tea, rubber and cardamom plantations
ALL QUESTION TO BE ANSWERED BY THE REGISTERED VALUER.
IF ANY PARTICULAR QUESTION DOES NOT APPLY TO THE PROPERTY UNER VALUATION, HE MAYINDICATE SO. IF THE SPACE PORVIDED NOT SUFFICIENT, DETAILS MAY BE ATTACHED ON SEPARTE SHEETS
Name of registered valuer Registration No.
1.
Purpose for which valuation is made
2. Date as on which valuation is made
3. Name of the owner/owners of agricultural land
4.
If the agritural land is under joint ownership/co-ownership, share of each owner: Are the share undivided?
5. Particulars of agricultural ;land :
Sl. No.Survey No.(s) of land(s)Village, tehsil and dustrict in which situated
Area of the land (in hectares)Classification of land(s) as given in the land revenue records such as Negir, Chabhi, Banjar, etc.Crops grown during the yearAnnual land revenue, if any
(1)
(1)
(1)
(1)
(1)
(1)
(1)
6.
Does the land fall in an area included in any town planning Scheme or any Development Plan of Government or any statutory body ? If so, give particulars
7.
Special features of the land such as quality and fertility of the land, mode of irrigation available (i.e., whether by wells, electric tube-wells or tube-wells or canal), near-ness to village, town and markets, approach roadsavailable and facilities and m
eans of transportation of the produce of the land to the market, whether cultivated by self or tenants. Any other features which affect the value of the land should be specifically stated
8. Any comparable case of the sale relied upon :
(a) Whether closely
similar property or generally simmilarity or difference
(b) In the same locality or if in a different locality how far distant
(c) Date of transaction
(d) Sale price and unit value
9.
Unit value adopted here the registered valuer should discuss in details his approch to valuation of the land and indicate how the value has been arrived at
10. Valu of land(s)
11. I hereby declare that__
(a)
the information furnished above is true and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief;
(b) I have no direct or indirect interest in the land valued;
(c) I have personally inspected the land(s) and I have exemined the revenue records of village/tehsil
Date
Place:
Signature of registered valuer