FORM NO. 37EE
[See rule 48DD]
Statement to be registered with the competent authority under
section 269AB(2) of the Income-tax Act, 1961
1. Name and address of the transferor
2. Name and address of the transferee
3. @ Detailed description, location and other particulars of the
property transferred
4. Whether land is freehold or leasehold
5. In the case of building-
(a) floorwise plinth area
(b) year or years in which the building was constructed
6. Where the transfer of property involves transaction of the
nature referred to in section 269AB(1)(a)
(a) date of transfer
(b) date on which possession of the property was taken by
the transferee if the date at ( b) above is prior to the date
at (a) above and the transferee retains the possession of
the property in part performance of the contract and does
some other act in furtherance of the contract
(i) the nature of the act performed by the transferee in
furtherance of the contract
(ii) the date on which such act was performed by the
transferee
(Also attach copy of the contract)
7. Where the transfer of property involves transaction of the
nature referred to in section 269AB(l)( b)
(a) name and address of the co-operative society, company
or other association of persons
(b) date of becoming a member of and/or acquiring shares
in co-operative society, company or other association of
persons
(c) number and face value of the shares
(d) if the transfer is otherwise than by way of transfer of
shares in a co-operative society, a company or other as-
sociation of persons-
(i) the nature of act having the effect of transferring or
enabling the enjoyment of property
(ii) the date on which such act was performed
(Attach statement setting out the terms of the agreement or ar-
rangement)
8. Name and address of person(s), if any, in occupation of the
property
9. *Name and address of any other person(s) interested in the
property
10. Consideration for transfer
11. Estimated fair market value of the property
12. If the transfer is by way of exchange, description and loca-
tion of the thing or things for which the property is exchanged
13. ^Fair market value of the thing or things mentioned against
item 12
14. If the consideration for transfer is less than the estimated fair
market value, whether the transferee is a relative of the trans-
feror, and if so, indicate relationship and state whether the
transfer for a consideration which is less than the fair market
value is on account of natural love and affection
..
Signature(s) of the person(s)
making the statement
Verification
I/We, ............, do hereby declare that what is stated above is true
to the best of my/our knowledge and belief.
Verified today the............. day of.............. .....
Signature
Notes:
1. @ If the space is insufficient, separate enclosure may be used for the purpose.
2. *“person interested”, in relation to any immovable property, includes all persons claiming or en-
titled to claim an interest in the compensation payable on account of the acquisition of the property
under Chapter XXA of the Income-tax Act, 1961.
3. ^ “Fair market value”, in relation to any immovable property transferred, means the price that im-
movable property would ordinarily fetch on sale in the open market on the date of execution of the
instrument of transfer of such property.
4. This statement should be signed by each of the parties, to the transaction referred to in section
269AB(1) of the Income-tax Act, 1961, or by any of the parties to such transaction acting on behalf
of himself and on behalf of the other parties, if the statement is signed only by one of such parties,
certified copy of document evidencing authority to act on behalf of other parties should be attached.
5. Verification should be made by all the parties signing the statement.
6. The statement should be made in duplicate and should be accompanied by two copies of contract
resulting in the transaction of the nature referred to in section 269AB(1)(a) of the Income-tax Act,
1961, or as the case may be, of a statement setting out the terms of the agreement or arrangement
resulting in the transaction of the nature referred to in section 269AB(1)(b) of that Act.