FORM NO. 3B
[See rule 6AB]
Audit Report under section *35D(4)/35E(6) of the Income-tax Act, 1961
*I/We have examined the Balance Sheet(s) of M/s .. as at
.and the profit and Loss Account(s) for the year(s) ended on *that /those date(s) which are in agreement with the books of account maintained at the head office at  *and branches at ..
*I/We have obtained all the information and explanations whic
h to the best of *my/our knowledge and belief were necessary for the purposes of the audit. In *my/our opinion, proper books of account have been kept by the head office and the branches of the abovenamed assessee visited by *me/us so far as appears from
*my/our examination of the branches not visited by *me/us, subject to the comments given below:-
In *my/our opinion and to the best of *my/our information and according to explanations given to *me/us, the said accounts given a true and fair view :-
(i) In
the case of the Balance Sheet(s) of the state of abovenamed assessees affairs as at .;and
(ii) In the case of the Profit and Loss Account(s), of the profit or loss of his accounting year(s) ending on ..
The statement of particulars required for
the purposes of the deduction under section *35D/35E is annexed and in *my/our opinion and to the best of *my /our information and according to explanations given to *me/us, these are true and correct.
Place .
Date .. Signed
Accountant
Note :
1. *Delete whichever is not applicable
2. !This report is to be gven by -------
(i)
a chartered accountant within the meaning of the Chartered Accounts Act, 1949 (38 of 1949); or
(ii) any person who, in relation to any
State, is, by virtue of the provisions of sub-section (2) of section 226 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956), entitled to be appointed to act as an auditor of companies registered in that State.
3. Where any of the matter stated in this Report is answe
red in the negative or with a qualification, the Report shall state the reasons for the same.
ANNEXURE TO FORM NO. 3B
SECTION A
STATEMENT OF PARTICULARS REQUIRED FOR THE PURPOSES OF DEDUCTION UNDER SECTION 35D
1. Date of commencement of business
.
2. Where the deduction is claimed with reference to the expenditure incurred in connection with the extension of the industrial undertaking or the setting up of a new industrial unit, the date on which the extension was completed or new industrial
unit commenced production or operation.
3. Qualifying amount of expenditure:
(a) Expenditure in connection with-----
(i)
Preparation of feasibility reportRs.
(ii) preparation of project report
Rs.
(iii)
Conducting market survey or any other survey necessary for the assessee Rs.
(iv) Engineering services relating to the business of the assessee
Rs.
(b)
Legal charges for drafting any agreement between the assessee and any other person for any purpose relating to the setting up or conduct of business of the assessee
Rs.
TOTAL
4. Cost of the project, i.e., actual cost of :
(i) land and buildings (including expenditure on development)
Rs.
(ii)
leaseholdsRs.
(iii) plant and machinery
Rs.
(iv) furniture and fittings
Rs.
(v)
railway sidingsRs.
TOTAL
5. Deduction claimed under section 35D
Rs.
..
Place
Date  Signed
Accountant
SECTION B
STATEMENT OF PARTICULARS REQUIRED FOR PURPOSES OF DEDUCTION UNDER SECTION 35E
1. Name(s) of mineral(s) or group(s) of associated minerals in respect of which operation relating to prospecting or development were undertaken
2. Year of commercial production
3. Qualifying amount of expenditure :
Year in which expenditure was incurredAmount of expenditure (Give details) Rs.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
Place
Date  Signed
Accountant
*Where the qualifying expenditure was incurred during more than more than one year, year-wise details of the expenditure should be given.
!Expenditure under this head should be claimed only where the work in connection with the preparation of the feasibili
ty report or project report or conducting market survey or any other survey or engineering services has been approved in this behalf by the Board.
+In case of business, the actual cost of the specified assets which are shown in the books of the assessee as
on the last day of the previous year in which the business was commenced should be given. In a case where the expenses were incurred in connection with the extension of the industrial undertaking or the setting up of a new industrial unit, the new indust
rial unit commenced production or operation (in so far as such assets have been acquired or developed in connection with the extension of the undertaking or setting up of the new industrial unit) should be given.