FORM NO. 3AB
[See rule 6AAB]
**Statement of expenditure to be furnished for the purposes of deduction under section 35CC of the Income-tax Act, 1961
1.
Name and address of the *company/co-operative society
2.
Permanent Account Number
3.
Previous year
4.
Assessment year
5.
Date on which the programme of rural development was approved by the prescribed authority [please attach a true copy of the order of the prescribed authority approving the programme]
6.
(a)
Copy of the programme of rural development as approved by the prescribed authority
(a) Particulars of rural area covered by the programme
(a) Particulars of work done during the previous year towards implementing the approved programme of rural development
[please attach separate sheet(s), if necessary]
7.
Total expenditure incurred during the previous year on the approved progtamme of rural development
8.
Where any part of the expenditure referred to in item 7 above
has been incurred before the approval of the programme of rural development by the prescribe authority, please specify the amount thereof
9.
Qualifying amount of expenditure [item 7 minus item 8]
10.
Amount of expenditure, out of the expenditure referred to in item 9 above, which has resulted in the acquisition or creation of any one or more of the following assets:-
(i) Land
(ii) Building
(iii) Machinery or plant
(iv)Furniture
TOTAL
11.
(a)
Has the *company/co-operative society divested itself of the ownership of the assets referred to in item 10 above before the end of the previous year?
(b)
If the answer to (a) above is in the affirmative, please indicate the date on which and the persons/authority in whose favour the property has been divested
(c) © If the answer to (a) ab
ove is in the negative, please specify the amount of expenditure which has resulted in the acquisition or creation of assets the ownership whereof has not been so divested
12.
Where the expenditure referred to in item 10 above includes any expenditure in respect of work-in-progress, please specify the amount thereof
13.
Amount of expenditure referred to in item 9 above which has hot resulted in the acquisition or creation of any asset, being land, building, machinery, plant or furniture [Please annex a
break-up of various items of expenditure under appropriate account heads, e.g. purchase of goods, salaries and wages of regular employees, other salaries and wages, conveyance and travelling, etc. Any item under which the expenditure exceeds Rs. 5,000 sh
ould be shown as a separate and distinct item against an appropriate accounted and not combined with any other item or shown under “Miscellaneous expenses”
. Where the approved programme of rural development consists of more than one separate and distinct pr
oject, a break-up of expenditure on the above lines should please be furnished in respect of expenditure incurred in respect of each such project separately]
14.
Where the entire expenditure incurred on the approved programme of rural development has not been debited to a separate account, please specify the various accounts to which such expenditure has been debited and the amount debited to each account
15.
(a) Where the assessee has maintained original bills, receipt, etc., in respect of the expenditure referred to in item 9 above
(b) whether such expenditure has been checked with reference to the bills, receipts, etc., and found to be in order
16.
(a) Whether any payment exceeding Rs. 2,500 has been made in respect of the expenditure on the approved programme of rural elopement otherwise than by a crossed cheque or a crossed bank draft-section 40A(3) of the income-tax Act. If so, please give de
tails of such payments
(b) Whether the expenditure incurred on the approved programme of rural development includes any expenditure not deductible under any other provision of the Income-tax Act. If so, please give particulars thereof.
17.
Amount of expenditure claimed as deduction under section 35CC(1)
The particulars given hereinabove have been prepared on an examination of the books of account and other documents maintained by M/s ..
[name of the *company/Co-operative society]
*I/We have obtained all the information and explanation which to the best of *my/our knowledge and belief were necessary for the purpose of preparing the statement of expenditure on the programme of rural develop
ment. In *my/our opinion and to the best of *my/our information and according to the explanations given to *me/us, the particulars given hereinabove are true and correct.
Place ..
Date  **Signed
Accountant
Notes :
1.
**Where any expenditure has been incurred during the previous year in respect of more than one programme of rural development, please furnish separate statements in respect of each such programme.
2. *Delete whichever is not applicable.
3. ! Where t
he assessee has contracted any building for the purpose of the programme of rural development, please furnish break-up of the expenditure under convenient heads, e.g. purchase of materials, etc., used , salaries and wages of regular employees, other salar
ies and wages, etc. Any item under which the expenditure exceeds Rs. 5,000 should be shown as a separate and distinct items and not combined with any other item or shown under “Miscellaneous expenses”.
4. !This statement is to be signed by
(a) a chartered
accountant within the meaning of the Chartered Accountants Act, 1949 (38 of 1949); or
(b)
any person who, in relation to any State is, by virtue of the provision in sub-section (2) of section 226 of the Companies Act, 1956(1 of 1956), entitled to be appointed to act as an auditor of companies registered in that State.
5.
Where the whole or a part of the approved programme of rural development has been executed on behalf of the assessee by its agent, a detailed break-up of the expenditure prepared on the b
asis of the statement of account rendered by the agent to the assessee and supporting bills, vouchers, etc; should be given on the lines indicated above.