FORM NO. 15AA
(See Rule 28AA)
Certificate under section 197(1) of the Income tax Act, 1961,
relating to deduction of tax
Certificate No. -
Income-tax Officer
To,
,
Date ------------- 19----
1.
I hereby authorise you to pay without deduction of income tax, the salary/interest on securities/interest other than interest on securities/insurance commission. rent/ income in respect of units (strike out whichever is not applicable) payable by you on t
he under mentioned securities/ sums credited in the name of.
2.
I hereby authorise you to pay the salary/interest on securities/interest other than interest on securities/insurance commission/rent/income in respect of units payable by you on the under
mentioned securities/sums credited in the name of
after deducting income tax at the rate of per cent and surcharge at the rate of per cent of the amount of the interest on securities/interest other than interest on securities/insurance commission/rent/
income in respect of units.
3.
This certificate shall remain in force upto
unless it is canceled by me under intimation to you before that date.
Schedule I
Description of securities
(1)Number of securities
(2)Date of securities
(3)Amount of securities
(4)
Schedule II
Sl.No.Name and address of the person to whom the sums are given on interest
Amount of such sums The date on which such sums were given on interestPeriod for which such sums were given on interestRate of interest
(1)(2)(3)(4)
(5)(6)
Schedule III
Sl. No.Name and address of person responsible for paying insurance commission
Amount of insurance
(1)(2)(3)
Schedule IV
Sl. No.Name and address of person responsible for paying salaryperiod of employmentAmount of salary
(1)(2)(3)(4)
Schedule V
Sl. No.Name and address of person responsible for paying rentAmount of rent
(1)(2)(3)
Schedule VI
Sl. No.Name and address of the mutual fundNumber of unitsClass of unitsTotal face valueDistinctive
(1)(2)(3)(4)
(5)(6)
4. The certificate shall be cease to b
e operative in respect of any of the securities/sums mentioned herein which are transferred/debited by the present holder to any other person, from the date you receive notice of such transfer/debit.
(SEAL)
-------------------------------------------
(Assessing Officer)
Note : *Name and address of the person responsible for deducting tax.