FORM NO. 34E
[See rule 44E]
Form of application by a person falling within such class or category of persons as notified by
Central Government in exercise of powers conferred for obtaining an advance ruling under
section 245Q(1) of theIncome-tax Act, 1961
(PLEASE READ THE NOTES CAREFULLY BEFORE FILLING THIS FORM)
BEFORE THE AUTHORITY FOR ADVANCE RULINGS
Application No. . of ..
1. Full name and address of the applicant with telephone and Fax Number
2. Status
3. Commissioner and Assessing Officer having jurisdiction over the applicant
4. Permanent Account Number
5. Particulars of the appeal number and date of appeal before the CIT(A) or the
Tribunal
6. Assessment year, date of assessment order and section under
which the original order was passed by the Assessing Officer
where ever applicable (enclose copy of the assessment order
and appellate order)
7. Question of law or fact involved on which the advance
ruling is required
8. Statement of the relent facts having a bearing on the
aforesaid question(s)
9. Statement containing the applicants interpretation of
law or facts, as the case may be, in respect of the aforesaid question(s)
10. List of documents/statements attached
11. Particulars of account payee demand draft accompanying the application
...
Signed
(Applicant)
Verification
I,
(name in full and in block letters).... son/daughter/wife of . do
hereby solemnly declare that to the best of my knowledge and belief what is stated above and in
the annexure(s), including the documents accompanying such annexure(s), is correct and complete.
I further declare that I am making this application in my capacity as ..
( d e si g na ti o n)
and that I am competent to make this application and verify it.
Verified today the . Day of .
Place .
...
Signed
(Applicant)
Annexure I
Statement of the relevant facts having a bearing on the
question(s) on which the advance ruling is required
Place .
...
Date .
Signed
(Applicant)
Annexure II
Statement containing the applicants interpretation of law
or facts, as the case may be, in respect of the question(s)
on which advance ruling is required
Place .
...
Date .
Signed
(Applicant)