FORM. NO. 37G
[See rule 48G]
Statement to be furnished to the registering officer under section 269P(1)
of the Income-tax Act, 1961, along with the
instrument of transfer
1. Name and address of the transferor
2 Name and address of the transferee
3. *Detailed description, location and other particulars of the
property transferred as given in the instrument of transfer
4. Whether land is freehold or leasehold
5. In the case of building-
(a) floorwise plinth area
(b) year or years in which the building was constructed
6. Name and address of person(s)i if any, in occupation of the
property
7. $Name and address of any other person(s) interested in the
property
8. Consideration for transfer as stated in the instrument of trans-
fer
9. #Estimated fair market value of the property
10. If the transfer is by way of exchange, description and loca-
tion of the thing or things for which the property is exchanged
11. #Fair market value of the thing or things mentioned against
item 10.
12. If the consideration for transfer is less than the estimated fair
market value
(a) whether the transferee is a relative of the transferor, and
if so, indicate relationship
(b) whether a recital to the effect that the transfer is made to
the relatives for a consideration less than the fair market
value on account of natural love and affection is made
in the instrument of transfer
13. Was any agreement to sell the property registered under the
Registration Act, 1908? If so-
(a) date of conclusion of the agreement
(b) date and registration number of the agreement
(c) consideration for transfer recorded in the agreement
Signature of the transferee
Verification
I, ......................................, do hereby declare that what is stated above is true to
the best of my knowledge and belief.
Verified today the............day of...... ......
.
Signature of the transferee
Notes :
1. *If the space is insufficient, separate enclosures may be used for the purpose.
2.. $ “Person interested”, in relation to any immovable property, includes all persons claiming or en-
titled to claim an interest in the compensation payable on account of the acquisition of the property
under Chapter XXA of the Income-tax Act, 1961.
3. # “Fair market value”, in relation to any immovable property transferred, means the price that immov-
able property would ordinarily fetch on sale in the open market on the date of execution of the
instrument of transfer of such property.