FORM NO. 20A
Registration No. of the Company .
Nominal Capital: Rs
THE COMPANIES ACT, 1956
Declaration of compliance with the provisions of section 149(2A) or of the section 149(2B)
[pursuant to section 149(2A)(ii)]
(To be used by a company whi
ch has delivered to the Registration of a Companies a statement in lieu of prospectus.)
Name of the company
Limited
Presented by
I of
. being a director/the secretary of Limited, do solemnly and sincerely declare:--
*1. That the com
pany has, by a special resolution passed at the general meeting held on approved of the commencement of ----
*new business not germane to the business which it was carrying on at the commencement of the
Companies (Amendment) Act, 1965 (31 of 1965).
*Business in relation to object(s) other than the main object(s) or object(s) incidental or ancillary thereto as specified in its memorandum of association.
*1.
That whereas at the general meeting held on . No special resolution was passed in regard to the commencement of------
*new business not germane to the business which the company was carrying on at the commencement of the companies (Amendment) Act, 1965 (31 of 1965).
*business in relation to object(s) other than the main object(s) or object(s) incidental or ancillary thereto as specified in its memorandum of association, but the votes cast on a show of the hand/poll in favour of the proposal to commence any business
c
ontained in the resolution moved at the meeting (including the casting vote of the Chairman) by member s who being entitled so to do voted in person/by proxy exceeded the votes cast against the proposal by members so entitled and voting the board of direc
tors made an application to the Central Government to allow the company to commence such business and the Central Government has in its letter No. dated
Granted the necessary permission.
*2. The statement made above is true to the best of my knowledge.
Dated this Day of 19
Signature
Designation: Director/Secretary
*Delete paragraphs not applicable.