FORM NO.10
Registration No. of the company
Nominal Capital Rs
THE COMPANIES ACT, 1956
Particulars of a series of debentures, containing or giving by reference to any other instruments, any charge, to the benefit of which the debenture-holders of the said series, are entitled
pari passu
, created by a company registered in India and also of any issue of debenture in a series
[pursuant to section 128 and 129]
THIS FORM IS TO BE USED FOR REGISTRATION OF PARTICULARS OF THE ENTIRE SERIES AND ALSO FOR ANY ISSUE IN A SERIES.
Name of the company
Limited/Private Limited.
Presented by
Total amount secured by whole seriesAmount of the percent issue of series
Date of the resolution authorising the issue of the seriesDate of the covering
deed (if any ) by which the security is created or defined or if there is no such deed, the first execution of any debenture of the series
1
1
1
1
General description of the property chargedGist of the terms and conditions and extent and operations of the charge
Names and addresses of the trustees (if any) for the debenture-holders Date of registration of the series(c)
5
5
5
5
Date of present issue Amount of present issue
Gist of the terms and conditions and extent and operation of the charge
Particular as to the amount or rate per cent of the commission, allowance or discount (if any), paid or made either, directly or indirectly by the company to a
ny person in consideration of subscribing or agreeing to subscribe, whether absolutely or conditionally or procuring or agreeing to procure subscription whether absolute or conditional for any of the debentures included in this return.
9
9
9
9
Dated the day of 19 .
Signature
Designation
Note :
(a)
A description of the instrument e.g. “
Trust Deed”, Mortgage,
Debenture etc. as the case may be should be given.
(b) Charge
includes mortgage see
section 124.
(c)
The date of registration may be confirmed from the certificate of registration.
(d)
The rate of interest under the terms of the debenture should not be entered.
(e) State position in relation to the company.