CONFIRMATION OF PARTITION ALREADY MADE BY THE
MEMBERS OF JOINT HINDU FAMILY
1. THIS is to record and confirm that the properties mentioned in the First Schedule herein owned and belonging to the joint Hindu family consisting of A, son of ................. B, son of ............
.... C, son of ................. D, son of ................ E, son of ................. all resident of ................ were partitioned between the members of the joint Hindu family by metes and bounds on ................ in the presence of Shri .......
.
........ I son of ................. resident of ................ and Shri ............... son of ................ resident of ............... and the properties mentioned in the Second Schedule, Third Schedule, Fourth Schedule, Fifth Schedule and Sixth Sc
hedule fell to the share of the A, E, C, D and E, respectively.
2. This is also confirmed that all the members of the joint family have taken possession of the properties fell to their share and each of them has covenanted and assured
with the other that (a) each member will be absolute and exclusive owner of the properties fell to his share and he will have no right, interest or title in the properties fell to the shares of other members, (b) each member will enjoy the properties fell
to his share peaceably and without interruption or disturbance by the other member or any one claiming through, under or in trust for him, (c) each member will at the cost of the person requiring the same, do every such act or thing as may reasonably be r
equired for further or more perfectly assuring the property transferred by him to the other.
3. During the partition, it was declared and confirmed by all the members that there is no mortgage, charge, lien or encumbrance on the proper
ties of the joint family and if any mortgage, charge, lien or encumbrance is found to attach to the properties or any part of the properties of joint Hindu family, all the members will be liable for the same in proportion of their share in the joint prope
rty.
4. The title deeds relating to the joint family properties mentioned in the Second Schedule have been retained by A, who has covenanted with other members to produce the same for inspection and in evidence, at the request and cost
of the member requesting for the same.
5. All the members agreed that the partition shall not be open to challenge on any ground whatsoever.
This writing has been executed for the purpose of confirmation and record of the partit
ion effected as hereinbefore mentioned and all the members of the joint Hindu family have set their hands to this writing in the presence of witnesses to confirm the said partition and covenants made by them to the other members.
The First Schedule above referred to
The Second Schedule above referred to
The Third Schedule above referred to
The Fourth Schedule above referred to
The Fifth Schedule above referred to
The Sixth Schedule above referred to
Dated this ................ day of ................ 2000.
A
B
C
D
E
WITNESSES;
1
2