DEED OF CONVEYANCE OF AN INTEREST IN PROPERTY
THE DEED OF CONVEYANCE is made at ....... this day ....... of. ..... between Mr. 'A' of ....... hereinafter referred to as the 'Vendor' of the one Part and Mr 'B' of . . . . . . .hereinafter referred to as the 'Purchaser' of the other Part.
WHEREAS the
Vendor is a co owner along with Mr 'X' and Mr. 'Y' of an immovable property consisting of land with building and situate at ....... in the City and Sub Registration Distt. of ....... and which is more particularly described in the Schedule hereunder writ
ten.
AND WHEREAS on a notional partition the Vendor's undivided share, right, title and interest Is one third in the said property;
AND WHEREAS the Vendor has agreed to sell his share to the purchaser absolutely for the price of Rs ........
AND WHEREAS for the purpose of stamp duty the consideration/market value of the said share is fixed at Rs ........ and stamp duty is paid accordingly.
AND WHEREAS the Purchaser has requested the Vendor to execute these presents which the latter has agreed to do.
NOW THIS DEED WITNESSETH that pursuant to the said agreement and in consideration of the said sum of Rs ........ (Rupees ....... ) paid by the Purchaser to the Vendor on the execution of these presents (receipt whereof the Vendor doth hereb
y admit) he the Vendor doth hereby convey and transfer by way of sale all his undivided one third share, right. title and Interest In or to the said land and premises situate at ....... and more particularly described in the Schedule hereunder written tog
e
ther with all the things permanently attached thereto and standing thereon and together with the proportionate benefit of all privileges, easement, profits, advantages, rights and appurtenances whatsoever to the said land and premises or any part thereof
b
elonging or in anywise appurtenant thereto and all other estate, right, title and interest of the Vendor whatsoever at law or otherwise to the said land and other premises, TO HAVE AND TO HOLD the same unto and of the use of the Purchaser absolutely and f
o
rever subject to the payment of all rents. rates, taxes, assessments, dues and duties now chargeable and payable and that may become chargeable and payable from time to time hereafter in respect of the said land and premises to the Government or the Munic
ipal Corporation (or Council) or any other local or pubic authority.
AND THE VENDOR DOTH HEREBY CONVENANT UNTO THE PURCHASER THAT
(1) The Vendor now has in himself good right and full
power to convey and transfer by sale all his said undivided one third share, right, title and interest In the said land and premises hereby conveyed or intended so to be unto and to the use of the purchaser in manner aforesaid.
(2) The
Purchaser may from time to time and at all times hereafter peaceably and quietly enter upon, occupy or possess and enjoy along with but without prejudice to the similar rights of the other co-owners of the said land and premises and to receive the proport
i
onate share In the rents. income and profits thereof and every part thereof for his own use and benefit without any suit, lawful interest or interruption claim or demand whatsoever from or by the Vendor or his heirs or any of them or by any person or pers
ons claiming or to claim from under or In trust for him or any of them.
(3) The Purchaser shall hold the said undivided share, right, title and interest in the said land and premises free and clear. freely and clearly and absolutely exone
rated and forever released and discharged or otherwise by the Vendor and well and sufficiently saved defended kept harmless and indemnified from and against all former and other estates. title, charges and encumbrances whatsoever made, occasioned or suffe
red by the Vendor or by any other person or, persons claiming to claim by. from, under or in trust for him.
(4) The Vendor and all persons having or claiming any estate. right. title or interest in the said undivided share, right, title a
nd interest of the vendor in the said land and premises. hereby conveyed or any part thereof by. from, under or In trust for the Vendor or his heirs, executors, administrators or any of them shall and will from time to time and. at all times hereafter at
t
he request and cost of the Purchaser do and execute and cause to be done and executed all such further and other lawful acts deeds and things In the law whatsoever for the better and more perfectly and absolutely granting the said undivided share, right,
and title and Interest in the said land and premises and every part thereof unto and to the use of the Purchaser in manner aforesaid as by the purchaser, his heirs, executors and administrators and assigns shall be reasonably required.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the Vendor has put his hand the day and year first hereunder written.
THE SCHEDULE ABOVE REFERRED TO
(description of the property)
Signed and Delivered by the withinnamed Vendor Mr .......
in the presence of ....