DEED OF CONVEYANCE OF FREEHOLD PROPERTY
THIS DEED OF CONVEYANCE is made at ........... this ....... .... day of ............. between Mr. 'A' of ........... (hereinafter referred to as 'the Vendor'), of the One Part, and Mr. 'B' of ............. (hereinafter referred to as 'the Purchaser') of t
he Other Part.,
WHEREAS the Vendor is absolutely seized and possessed of or otherwise well and sufficiently entitled to the land and premises situate at ..... and more particularly described In the Schedule hereunder written.
AND WHEREAS the Vendor has agreed to sell the said property to the Purchaser at the price of Rs . ..... and has received from the Purchaser a sum of Rs. ... as earnest money on the execution of the agreement for sale.
AND WHEREAS the Purchaser has requested the Vendor to execute these presents which he has agreed to do,
AND WHEREAS the consideration /market value on which stamp Is payable on this deed is Rs ...... and stamp duty is paid accordingly.
NOW THIS DEED WITNESSETH;
That pursuant to the said agreemen
t and in consideration of the sum of Rs .......... paid as earnest money and of the sum of Rs ....... paid on or before the execution of these presents, making together the said sum of Rs .............. by the Purchaser to the Vendor (receipt whereof the
V
endor hereby admits). He, the Vendor Doth hereby convey and transfer by way of sale unto the Purchaser all that piece of land with the building and structures standing thereon situate at ......... In the Registration Sub-District of .......... and more pa
r
ticularly described in the Schedule hereunder written and delineated on the Plan thereof hereto annexed by red coloured boundary line TOGETHER WITH ALL the things permanently attached thereto or standing thereon and all the privileges, easements, profits,
advantages, rights and appurtenances whatsoever to the said land and other the premises or any part thereof belonging or anywise appertaining thereto And ALL the estate, right, title, Interest, use, possession, benefit, claim and demand whatsoever at law
o
r otherwise of the Vendor to the said piece of land and other the premises hereby conveyed and every part thereof TO HOLD the same unto and to the use and benefit of the Purchaser absolutely and for ever, subject to the payment of all rents, rates, taxes,
assessments, dues and duties now chargeable and payable and that may become chargeable and payable from time to time hereafter In respect of the same to the Government or the Municipal Corporation or Council of ........... or any other public body or loca
l authority in respect thereof.
AND the Vendor doth hereby covenant with the Purchaser that,
(1) the Vendor now has in himself good right and full power to convey and transfer by way of s
ale the said piece of land, and other the premises hereby conveyed or Intended so to be unto and to the use of the Purchaser in the manner aforesaid.
(2) the Purchaser may from time to time and at all times hereafter peaceably and quietly
enter upon, occupy. or possess and enjoy the said land. and premises hereby conveyed with their appurtenances, and receive the rents, issues and profits thereof and every part thereof for his own use and benefit without any suit, lawful eviction or interr
uption, claim and demand whatsoever from or by him the Vendor or his heirs or any of them or by any person or persons claiming or to claim, from, under or in trust for him or any of them.,
(3) the Purchaser shall hold the said land and pre
mises free and clear and freely and clearly and absolutely exonerated, and forever released and discharged or otherwise by the Vendor and well and sufficiently saved, defended. kept harmless and indemnified of. from and against all former and other estate
s, titles, charges and encumbrances whatsoever made occasioned and suffered by the Vendor or by any other person or persons claiming or to claim by, from, under or in trust for him;
(4) the Vendor and all persons having or claiming any est
ate, right, title or Interest In the said land, and premises hereby conveyed or any part thereof by, from. under or in trust for the Vendor or his heirs, executors, administrators or any of them shall and will from time to time and at all times hereafter
a
t the request and costs of the Purchaser do and execute and cause to be done and executed all such further and other lawful acts, deeds, things, whatsoever for better and more perfectly and absolutely granting the said land, and premises and every part th
ereof hereby conveyed unto and to the use of the Purchaser in manner aforesaid as by the Purchaser, his heirs, executors or administrators and assigns shall be reasonably required.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the Vendor has put his hand the day and year first hereinabove written.
THE SCHEDULE ABOVE REFERRED TO
(Description of the Property)
SIGNED AND DELIVERED BY THE
Vendor Mr ...