DEED OF PARTITION BETWEEN
CO-OWNERS
Shri.s/or/o
.(hereinafter called first party), and Shri ..s/o.. r/o..(hereinafter called second party) Shri.s/or/o
.(hereinafter called third party), and do hereby execute this DEED OF PARTITION between themselves on this . day of
WHEREAS
the aforesaid parties are the co-owners in equal shares of the properties mentioned in the Schedules 1, 2, and 3 of this deed of partition.
WHEREAS the aforesaid properties were purchased by the aforesaid parties on.from Shri s/o . r/o . vide sale-deed dated
..and registered on
AND WHEREAS the aforesaid parties have mutually agreed to divide the said properties amongst themselves in order to avoid any future dispute with regards to the said properties.
AND WHEREAS the aforesaid parties have agreed to assign the land comprising an area of ..Bighas..Biswas bearing Khasra No.and Khatauni No.situated at
,mentioned and mapped in Schedule 1 to first party and the land comprising an area of ..situated at..bearing the Khasra Noand Khatauni No
. detailed in Scheduled 2 to this deed to second party and the land alongwith the trees standing thereon comprising an area of.situated atbearing Khasra No.and Khatauni No
..detailed in Schedule 3 to this deed to the third party. The aforesaid parties have also mutually agreed that the aforesaid parties become sole and absolute owners of the allotted properties.
AND WHEREAS the aforesaid parties have taken possession of the properties assigned to them as aforesaid.
NOW THIS DEED WITNESSES AS FOLLOWS ;
1.
That in consideration of the right title and interest made in accordance with the aforesaid terms of this deed and in accordance with the conditions hereinafter mention
ed release and relinquish their interest in the properties allotted to other parties and each of the said parties hereby conveys to each others party separately his right, title and interest therein so as to constitute each party to this deed the sole a
nd absolute owner of demands of other thereto or concerning therewith, as from the date of this deed.
2.
That the original deed of partition shall be retained by first party, at true copy thereof signed by each party has been delivered to the other said
parties who shall be entitled to require production of the original from the first party before any Court or public office or Bank or Insurance Company etc. it so desired.
3. That the parties have agreed that all taxes and public charges in respect of t
he allotted properties shall be borne by the parties themselves.
4.
That each party will execute such deed or do all other acts necessary which may be requisite for more effectually assuring the party so requiring and at his cost, in the manner required
by law and appear before revenue or other authorities to have mutation effected in respect of the party assigned to the party concerned.
5.
That the valuation of the entire property under this partition-deed is fixed at Rs. 5 lacs.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the aforesaid parties have signed this deed of partition on the day and year first before written.
Witnesses :
1..
2..
Sd/-
1. First party
2. Second party
3. Third party
Schedule-1.
Schedule-2.
Schedule-3