Application for grant of permit in respect of Tourist Vehicle
To,
The State Transport Authority,
I/We, the undersigned hereby apply for the grant of permit for tourist vehicle valid throughout the territory of India/in the State of ............ (specify the names of the States).
1. Name of the applicant(s) in full.
2. Status of the applicant, whether individual, company or partner- ship firm, co-operative society etc.
3. Name of father or husband (in case of individual) and in case of firm or company the particulars of managing partner or managing director, as the case may be.
4. Full address (To be
supported by attested copy of ration card, electricity bill, etc. in case of individual or any other valid documentary proof to the satisfaction of State Transport Authority and in case of company or firm certified copy of the Memorandum of Association o
r copy of the partnership deed).
5. (a) Whether applicant himself intends to drive the vehicle?
(b) If so, whether, applicant
(i) holds Heavy Passenger Motor Vehicle Driving Licence.
(ii) The number, date and validity period of driving licence.
(iii) Name and address of the Licensing Authority.
6. Registration certificate alongwith the date of first registration, insurance certificate number.
7. Details of other permits if any, held in respect of a particular vehicle.
8. Details of total number of Tourist Permits held by the applicant.
9. Type of vehicle.
10. Make of motor vehicle.
11. Particulars of convictions/suspensions/cancellation, if any, during the past three years in respect of the vehicle/permit held by the applicant(s).
12. I/We forward herewith the certificate of registration of the vehicle or I/We will produce the certificate of registration of the vehicle before the permits are issued.
13. I/We hereby declare that the above statements are true and that I/We am/are the resident(s) of this State having principal place of business in this State at.
14. I/We have paid the fee of rupees...
Date........................
Signature or thumb impression of the applicant.